UNIT 1: INTEGRAL CALCULUS
1 Double integrals: Introduction, Evaluation
2 Application of double integrals: Area, Volume of the solid and Average value of the function.
3 Jacobian, Change of variables in Double integral (Polar coordinates)
4 Problems on change of variables in double integral
5 Change of order of integration
6 Triple Integrals: Introduction and Evaluation
7-8 Application of triple integrals: Volume and Average value of the function
9-10 Change of variables in triple integral (Spherical and Cylindrical)
11 Applications of Multiple integrals: Area and volume.
12 Center of Mass and Moment of Inertia.

UNIT 2: VECTOR CALCULUS

1 Introduction to vector differentiation and Gradient of a scalar function.
2 Directional derivatives, Angle between the surfaces
3 Divergence,
4 Curl and related properties
5 Application problems on Gradient, divergence and curl.
6 Introduction to line, surface and volume integrals
7 Problems on line Surface and Volume integral
8 Green’s theorem
9 Problems on Green’s theorem
10 Stoke’s theorem
11 Problems on Stoke’s theorem
12 Gauss’s Divergence theorem

UNIT 3- LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
1 Laplace transforms, Applications, Advantages and sufficient conditions for Existence of Laplace transform
2-3 Laplace transform of standard functions
4-5 General properties of Laplace transforms: Linearity, change of scale, First shift theorem, Laplace transform of derivatives, Laplace transform of integrals, Multiplication by 𝑡𝑛and Division by t.
6-7 Problems based on the properties of Laplace transforms.
8 Laplace transform of periodic function: Statement and problems.
9 Laplace transform of Unit step function
10 Second shifting property
11 Laplace transform of unit impulse function

UNIT 4 - INVERSE LAPLACE TRANSFORMS

1 Definition and Inverse Laplace transform of standard functions.
2 General properties of Inverse Laplace transforms: Linearity, first shift, Change of scale.
3-4 Inverse Laplace transform of derivatives, Integrals, Multiplication by s, Division by s, Second shifting theorem.
5-6 Problems based on above discussed properties.
7 Inverse Laplace transforms using partial fractions.
8-9 Convolution theorem: Statement, applications, and problems.
10-11 Applications of Laplace transforms to solve Differential equations.

UNIT 5- FOURIER SERIES
1 Introduction to Fourier Series, Dirchlet's conditions, Euler's formulae
2 Fourier Series of Even and Odd functions
3-4 Problems on Fourier Series
5 Half -range Fourier series
6 Parseval's Identity
7-8 Practical Harmonic Analysis
9-10 Complex form of Fourier series